#summary What this app does

= Introduction =

*Compass 3D* draws a three-dimensional compass needle that indicates the current magnetic field direction.

That's it. 

U.S. users may be surprised to find that the direction of the magnetic field is *into the ground* where they live. The strength of the Earth's natural magnetic field is about 20--60 μT on the ground, and it is easily swamped by magnets you may find 
  * on your fridge
  * in your headphones
  * in your laptop speakers

= How to use =

Keep your device oriented so that you are looking directly into the plane of the display. (If you can see your reflection, that's a good sign).

Now, raise your arm and move your phone around to see the needle change. Remember to keep the display 'flat' to your eye.

You should be able to discern that the needle always points in the direction of the 3-dimensional magnetic field.

== Use as a compass ==

Place your phone flat on a table. The red tip will indicate magnetic north. If the red tip is fully obscured by the white side, then the magnetic field is pretty steep.

The yaw reading will indicate the field's deflection from the phone's "y" axis (top-bottom axis). Pointing the phone east will result in a yaw of about -90°, while west will deflect the needle to +90°.

Magnetic north is not the same as true north.

= Features =

  * Live three-dimensional red-white needle (Red points to magnetic north)
  * Background lightens as magnetic intensity increases
  * Vibrates when the handset is aligned with the magnetic field
  * Displays numerical deviation and inclination from the phone's axis, and strength

See also: [Screenshot]